Unbalanced butterflies, or skip strike butterflies, or broken wing butterflies, or whatever you want to call them. They are getting to be a more and more popular strategy, particularly in um zero DTE index options. And what are they? Well, they are they seem like uh regular butterflies. In other words, you buy one option, sell two other options, and buy another option. Except where a butterfly, the strikes are have an equal number of points in between them, the broken wing butterfly, the unbalanced butterfly, has um one strike that's a little bit farther away. And why would a trader do that? What's driving that trade? And that's what's the That's what I want to talk about. Is when you do a regular butterfly, okay, you got it. That's the butterfly. Low probability, low risk, very high potential reward. But when you start to break it break it into, let's say, an unbalanced butterfly, then it changes the dynamics of the trade, and it gives you another thing to actually focus on to manage. Let's see what it what I'm talking about here. All right, index is let's say 7410. Um if I buy the uh I'm I'm buying a regular butterfly butterfly, I might be buying the 705s. Uh buy the 705, sell uh the 795, sell two of those. Well, change that when we get down there. And buy one of the 7 7385s. Click here. Or click here. Uh change the quantity to two, and that's my regular butterfly. Okay? Um a dollar 10 dollar 15 credit or debit, excuse me. No surprises here. Max loss is what I paid for it. One 105 110. Max profit is the difference between the strikes. 74 7405 to 7395 is 10 points minus what I paid for it is my max profit. Okay? That's a regular butterfly. When I do a broken wing butterfly, I'm doing this. I take this on the put side. I'm taking the 7385 put. Instead of buying those, I'll drag this down to the 7375s. Huh. What does that do? It takes it from a $1.10 debit to a $0.10 credit. Okay? And let's just pull the To make that To make it a little clearer, let's pull this down to the 7365s. What I did was I turned this from a debit $1.10 $1.15 with a regular butterfly and turned it into a broken wing butterfly by dragging, by changing the long further out of the money put strike, putting that at a lower strike. And I took it from a debit to a credit trade. What does that tell me? Okay? I've been doing these for a long, long time and have a tried to explain them to, you know, these broken wing butterflies to regulatory [clears throat] authorities, our clearing firms, exchanges. And this is what sort of separates real option traders from people who maybe don't, you know, maybe they're just kind of regular sort of I mean, any mutual fund investors. Let's put it that way. This is a the Look at the risk of this trade, okay? My profit, my max profit, now goes to a dollar 1,085. It's the difference between 7405 and 7395, 10 points, plus this credit. Okay? How have I generated this credit? Synthetically. I am short the 7375 7365 put spread. Let's do this Let's do this little experiment. Let's go back up and do the 73, uh, 7405 7395 7385, uh, butterfly. Remember, it's a dollar 20. I'm going to clear this out. Okay, let's clear this trade. And now I'm going to go in and do the 7385 and buy the 7365. A dollar 80 credit. Okay? So, I started off with what? A dollar 20 debit? Um, for the, um, long butterfly and I have a dollar 65 credit for the short put spread. If I add them together, I get the credit for the broken wing butterfly, the unbalanced butterfly. Okay? What What's the point of this? When you do these unbalanced butterflies, I don't like to think of them as butterflies. What I like to do is think of them as, in this case, a short put spread with a long butterfly lottery ticket. Because that's how many traders trade them and how I trade them myself. So, if I put this on, yeah, if I do this, let's clear this trade. If I just have this short put spread, I'm I'm bullish, okay? Um I want the index to stay above 7385 um through the rest of the day for zero DTE options. And ideally, you know, I can either wait till it expires and collect the whole credit or I'll buy this back for maybe 80 cents and capture, you know, an $80 profit. That's how I would manage this short put spread. But if what I do is So, let's remember that. But if I do this, if I buy the 7405s, um if I do this butterfly, okay? And remember I said it's kind of a lottery ticket. So, again, very small delta, um very low proba- relatively low probability of profit, but if I now turn this into the broken wing butterfly, I'm going to manage that unbalanced broken wing butterfly like I would that short put spread. Because here's what happens. If I put this on for, let's say, a 55-cent credit, in other words, I Remember, I'm buying that butterfly and selling the put spread combined gives me that credit. And I do this as one single trade, by the way. I don't do this as two trades. I don't do a butterfly and a short put spread. I do this at one time. But I manage this as the short put spread. How do I know which short put spread I have on? Wait a second. This is what confuses some people. Wait a second. You're saying you have the 7385 the 736585 put spread. There's no There's no option here. Tom, what are you talking about? You're not short that 85 put that 7385 put. Okay. I know there's no actual position in there. This is how I would argue with these people. This is There's no actual position in there, but that's where the risk is coming from. The risk on this trade isn't the butterfly trade. The risk on this trade is the embedded short put spread. And where the risk is, the opportunity is. That's why when I buy this unbalanced butterfly, broken wing butterfly, for credit, I'm establishing it for credit, and I don't like to do these for debits, but I like to do them for credits. I'm going to try to buy this seven put spread back for less than the credit I take in. So, if I sell this if I do this broken wing butterfly, let's say for um it was let's say 50 cents. Let's make the math easy. Let's say I put that on for a 50 cent credit. If I can buy that 7365 7385 put spread back, okay, if I can buy that spread, in other words, um buying the 80 for 7385 put and selling the 7365 put, if I can do that for less for a debit that's less than the credit of the unbalanced butterfly, if in other words, I put the butter the unbalanced butterfly on for 50 credit 50 cent credit, if I can buy it back now for if I can buy this put spread back for, you know, a 20 cent debit, so what I've done now, if I do that, I now have the 7385 the 7405 7395 7385 the standard 10 point butterfly for a 30 cent credit. If I put the butter unbalanced butterfly on for 50% credit and I paid 20% to buy back that embedded short put spread that I have the butterfly on for 30% credit. Can I lose money on a butterfly when I especially with with the cash settled index options, can I lose money on a butterfly that I own for a credit? Theoretically, no. Let's take a look at what I mean by that. Let's go to the Let's go to the curve. Um This is if I bought the butterfly for let's say a dollar. Let's take this down. Let's do a net credit. Can I do that? So, let's say this you know, let's say a 30% credit. If I bought then you can't do this. You You're not going to buy that butterfly for for credit. But the straight butterfly for credit. But look what it does to the P&amp;L. In other words, it gives all this profit up here. There's There's no real way this trade can lose if I put on a butterfly for a credit. That goes back to this trade. We do this. Mhm. Increase the Okay, this is my regular butterfly. Now I drag this down to the 65s. Okay, let's look at the curve on that one. Look how the graph changes. Now I have profit up here, loss down here. Where's that P&amp;L coming from? The embedded short put vertical. The 73 65 73 85 put vertical. Okay? So, if if I can buy that embedded short put spread, even though you don't see that 73 85 put in the unbalanced butterfly, okay? It kind of is there. It's kind of a phantom put. Okay? If I buy that put spread back, I am establishing the equidistant strike butterfly and doing it for a for a net credit. In other words, the package of trades comes out to a butterfly for a credit. That's why I manage unbalanced butterflies as the embedded short spread, the embedded short put spread for an unbalanced put put butterfly, the embedded short call spread for an for an unbalanced call butterfly. I manage the embedded vertical as the trade. Okay? And that's what you see a lot of a lot of traders doing. Is this an advanced trade? Not necessarily an advanced trade because it's you know, you can This is something that everybody can do. It doesn't take a lot of, you know, it's not like multiple legs across different different underlies, that sort of stuff. It's not advanced in that respect. But it takes a little bit of a leap in in in in the concept of seeing that embedded short vertical when there's no actual option in the trade. I go back to this table. If I look at this trade, I know cuz I've been doing this for 30 plus years. I know that I'm embedded that I I am synthetically short that 73 65 73 85 put spread. I just see that. That's how I see it. And if you do this enough times, you're going to see it, too. But even if you don't necessarily see it and it's the way I set these up is if I start with this butterfly, what I'll do is I'll drag this long put down until I generate a credit. Maybe it's a 73 70s, you know, it's maybe it's I think it's a 7365s in this example. And again, that's the way the option prices work at this time. Um, earlier in the day for the zero DTEs, you can you can do a little bit time you can have that long out of the money further out of the money put a little bit closer in and you still generate a credit. Um, when you do the unbalanced when it gets later in the day like it is now, it becomes a little bit harder. But, if you do these trades, if you do these unbalanced types of butterflies, um, understand that they have more risk than a regular butterfly and more potential profit than a regular butterfly. That clues you in that you have an embedded short vertical for that trade in that trade. Even though we don't call it an unbalanced or you know, I say an embedded short puts, we don't talk about it. We don't mention that in the name of the trade at all. You know, we talk about unbalanced butterfly. What drives that trade is the embedded short spread. Manage the Manage that embedded short spread as you manage the trade. Don't think about it as an unbalanced butterfly as a package. Yes, you can close it if you want to. You take the whole thing off if you want to. But, the way I tend to look at these things is I buy back my short embedded spread for a debit that's less than the total credit that I generated for the unbalanced butterfly. And that leaves me with that long butterfly for credit. So, I have a lottery ticket. That's what butterflies are. Basically, it's hey, you want the index to be right at the short strike where it expires. It's a lottery ticket. Very low probability of that happening. But, if I can get it for a credit, I'm not paying anything for that lottery ticket. So, that's unbalanced butterflies. Think about them as with a regular butterfly and an embedded vertical and understand that they have more risk, higher potential profit, more theta. So, those are attractive things, you know, in addition to the risk, margin requirements are higher, buying power reductions are greater. So, you just make sure you understand if you do these trades, understand the extra risk you're taking when you do them. And if you do decide to do these things, remember don't take any more risk in them than you are comfortable with.